man/gtfsschedule.1.adoc, before:

= GTFSSchedule(1)
:doctype: manpage
:author: Róman Joost
:email: roman@bromeco.de

== NAME

gtfsschedule - Be on time for your next public transport service.

== SYNOPSIS

gtfsschedule setup [-s|--static-url URL]

gtfsschedule monitor STATION-ID[:MINUTES]
             [-u|--autoupdate]
             [--static-url URL]
             [--realtime-url URL]

== DESCRIPTION

gtfsschedule is a command line utility providing public transport schedule
information following the GTFS specification from Google.

== OPTIONS

*setup --static-url='URL'*:: Populates a local database with static schedule
information downloaded from the URL given with *--static-url*. The database is
created by default in: `$HOME/.local/share/gtfs/` The schedule information is
typically a zip archive offered by the public transport authority containing CSV
files following the GTFS Static Reference.

*monitor STATION-ID[:MINUTES]*:: Print next departing services for a given stop.
 You can specify more than one station-id deliminted by spaces. Additionally the
 time to reach the station can be added to the station id using an integer
 separated by a *+*.

*u, --autoupdate*:: Automatically update the static dataset if it becomes out of
 date. The gtfsschedule tool performs a check every run by performing a HEAD
 request against the URL given by the *--static-url* option. *Note:* Be careful
 using this flag, since there is no verification of the downloaded zip archive
 not containing malicious contents.

*--static-url*='URL':: Providing this option will let the gtfsschedule tool
   performing a HEAD request to determine if the local dataset is outdated. If a
   new version is available online a message is message is printed to STDERR.

*--realtime-url*='URL':: URL to retrieve realtime information from. The tool
   will always retrieve the schedule first from the local database and update
   these services with realtime information if available.

== Examples

=== Setting up the local database

Run the setup command like:

----
gtfsschedule setup --static-url https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip
----

=== Finding out your stop code

There is no general advice to give on how to retrieve the stop code. It is typically a 6 digit number and public transport agencies provide them next to the online schedule information of certain stops.

As an example this is Brisbane's Roma St, platform 8 stop code:
https://jp.translink.com.au/plan-your-journey/stops/600029[600029].

=== Retrieve next departing services

Once you have your stop code, invoke the command to show next departing
services:

[source, bash]
----
# Transport leaves in 11 minutes
gtfsschedule monitor 600248
Desitnation 11 min (13:17:00)
----

=== Using a count down

If you want to know when to leave your position in order to reach the
service upon departure time, you can specify a delay:

[source, bash]
----
# Transport leaves in 11 minutes, factor in a walk time to the stop/station of 7 minutes
gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7

# Include in realtime updates with possible delays
gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7 --realtime-url http://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/Feed/SEQ
----

=== Monitoring multiple stops

You can specify multiple stops with different delays to reach them:

[source, bash]
----
gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7 600249+5
----

=== Schedule change indicators format

When you run the program with realtime updates, the following changes are
indicated as follows:

[source, bash]
----
# Delayed service
!GTPB Destination 11 min (13:17:06 (46s)) <-- delay
                          ^ departure time including delay

# Canceled service
GTPB Destination 11 min (13:17:00 !CANC!)
----

=== Updating the database

If you run the gtfsschedule tool with the `static-url` option, it
automatically checks if the local dataset is up to date and prints a
warning if it isn't. Simply run:

----
gtfsschedule setup --static-url https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip
----

to update download a new dataset and update your database.

=== Automatically keeping the database up-to-date

You can invoke `gtfsschedule monitor` with `-u` to keep your static
dataset up-to-date automatically:

----
gtfsschedule monitor -u --static-url https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip 600029
----

== Configuration

A configuration file helps with making the use of the command line tool easier,
especially if you're always receiving updates from the same API and the dataset
from the same URL. The command line options and arguments have precedence over
the configuration file however.

The configuration file should be placed in `~/.conf/gtfs/config.cfg`, should
define one section *default* and supports setting the URLs to the realtime API
and the static dataset. For example, for Brisbane the config file would look:

[source, ini]
----
[default]
static-url = https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip
realtime-url = http://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/Feed/SEQ
----

The format of the configuration file is documented here:
https://hackage.haskell.org/package/ini/docs/Data-Ini.html

Note: I have not tested how well the support works with other GTFS feed APIs
than Translink (QR) provides. Feedback is very welcome.

== Status monitor examples

Xmobar:

----
Run Com "gtfsschedule" ["monitor", "600248"] "gtfs" 600
----

Poor mans statusbar with `watch`. Use a terminal window and:

----
watch -n 60 "gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7"
----

== Resources

Github: https://github.com/romanofski/gtfsschedule
GTFS specification: https://developers.google.com/transit/

Commit message:

Allow user to configure how many items are shown
Issue: #10

man/gtfsschedule.1.adoc, after:

= GTFSSchedule(1)
:doctype: manpage
:author: Róman Joost
:email: roman@bromeco.de

== NAME

gtfsschedule - Be on time for your next public transport service.

== SYNOPSIS

gtfsschedule setup [-s|--static-url URL]

gtfsschedule monitor STATION-ID[:MINUTES]
             [-u|--autoupdate]
             [-l|--limit]
             [--static-url URL]
             [--realtime-url URL]

== DESCRIPTION

gtfsschedule is a command line utility providing public transport schedule
information following the GTFS specification from Google.

== OPTIONS

*setup --static-url='URL'*:: Populates a local database with static schedule
information downloaded from the URL given with *--static-url*. The database is
created by default in: `$HOME/.local/share/gtfs/` The schedule information is
typically a zip archive offered by the public transport authority containing CSV
files following the GTFS Static Reference.

*monitor STATION-ID[:MINUTES]*:: Print next departing services for a given stop.
 You can specify more than one station-id deliminted by spaces. Additionally the
 time to reach the station can be added to the station id using an integer
 separated by a *+*.

*u, --autoupdate*:: Automatically update the static dataset if it becomes out of
 date. The gtfsschedule tool performs a check every run by performing a HEAD
 request against the URL given by the *--static-url* option. *Note:* Be careful
 using this flag, since there is no verification of the downloaded zip archive
 not containing malicious contents.

*l, --limit*:: Set an upper limit as to how many schedule items are shown.
 Defaults to 3 items. The program enforces a maximum of 20 items.

*--static-url*='URL':: Providing this option will let the gtfsschedule tool
   performing a HEAD request to determine if the local dataset is outdated. If a
   new version is available online a message is message is printed to STDERR.

*--realtime-url*='URL':: URL to retrieve realtime information from. The tool
   will always retrieve the schedule first from the local database and update
   these services with realtime information if available.

== Examples

=== Setting up the local database

Run the setup command like:

----
gtfsschedule setup --static-url https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip
----

=== Finding out your stop code

There is no general advice to give on how to retrieve the stop code. It is typically a 6 digit number and public transport agencies provide them next to the online schedule information of certain stops.

As an example this is Brisbane's Roma St, platform 8 stop code:
https://jp.translink.com.au/plan-your-journey/stops/600029[600029].

=== Retrieve next departing services

Once you have your stop code, invoke the command to show next departing
services:

[source, bash]
----
# Transport leaves in 11 minutes
gtfsschedule monitor 600248
Desitnation 11 min (13:17:00)
----

=== Using a count down

If you want to know when to leave your position in order to reach the
service upon departure time, you can specify a delay:

[source, bash]
----
# Transport leaves in 11 minutes, factor in a walk time to the stop/station of 7 minutes
gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7

# Include in realtime updates with possible delays
gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7 --realtime-url http://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/Feed/SEQ
----

=== Monitoring multiple stops

You can specify multiple stops with different delays to reach them:

[source, bash]
----
gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7 600249+5
----

=== Schedule change indicators format

When you run the program with realtime updates, the following changes are
indicated as follows:

[source, bash]
----
# Delayed service
!GTPB Destination 11 min (13:17:06 (46s)) <-- delay
                          ^ departure time including delay

# Canceled service
GTPB Destination 11 min (13:17:00 !CANC!)
----

=== Updating the database

If you run the gtfsschedule tool with the `static-url` option, it
automatically checks if the local dataset is up to date and prints a
warning if it isn't. Simply run:

----
gtfsschedule setup --static-url https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip
----

to update download a new dataset and update your database.

=== Automatically keeping the database up-to-date

You can invoke `gtfsschedule monitor` with `-u` to keep your static
dataset up-to-date automatically:

----
gtfsschedule monitor -u --static-url https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip 600029
----

== Configuration

A configuration file helps with making the use of the command line tool easier,
especially if you're always receiving updates from the same API and the dataset
from the same URL. The command line options and arguments have precedence over
the configuration file however.

The configuration file should be placed in `~/.conf/gtfs/config.cfg`, should
define one section *default* and supports setting the URLs to the realtime API
and the static dataset. For example, for Brisbane the config file would look:

[source, ini]
----
[default]
static-url = https://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/GTFS/SEQ_GTFS.zip
realtime-url = http://gtfsrt.api.translink.com.au/Feed/SEQ
----

The format of the configuration file is documented here:
https://hackage.haskell.org/package/ini/docs/Data-Ini.html

Note: I have not tested how well the support works with other GTFS feed APIs
than Translink (QR) provides. Feedback is very welcome.

== Status monitor examples

Xmobar:

----
Run Com "gtfsschedule" ["monitor", "600248"] "gtfs" 600
----

Poor mans statusbar with `watch`. Use a terminal window and:

----
watch -n 60 "gtfsschedule monitor 600248+7"
----

== Resources

Github: https://github.com/romanofski/gtfsschedule
GTFS specification: https://developers.google.com/transit/
